# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Classes

#### Public Classes

* [`etcd`](#etcd): This module manages etcd (https://etcd.io)
It uses a package-based install,
and does not download binaries from a release page.

#### Private Classes

* `etcd::auth`: This class manages auth-related stuff
* `etcd::config`: This class handles the etcd configuration file
* `etcd::install`: This class handles the etcd installation using the
operating system's package manager
* `etcd::service`: This class manages the etcd systemd service

### Resource types

* [`etcd_role`](#etcd_role): @summary Manage an etcd role

## Classes

### <a name="etcd"></a>`etcd`

This module manages etcd (https://etcd.io)
It uses a package-based install,
and does not download binaries from a release page.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `etcd` class:

* [`package_names`](#-etcd--package_names)
* [`config`](#-etcd--config)
* [`config_dir`](#-etcd--config_dir)
* [`config_file`](#-etcd--config_file)
* [`manage_config_dir`](#-etcd--manage_config_dir)
* [`purge_config_dir`](#-etcd--purge_config_dir)
* [`manage_service`](#-etcd--manage_service)
* [`service_name`](#-etcd--service_name)
* [`etcdctl_env`](#-etcd--etcdctl_env)
* [`manage_etcdctl_profile`](#-etcd--manage_etcdctl_profile)
* [`auth`](#-etcd--auth)
* [`roles`](#-etcd--roles)
* [`purge_roles`](#-etcd--purge_roles)

##### <a name="-etcd--package_names"></a>`package_names`

Data type: `Array[String]`

A list of packages to install.
Empty list will not install any packages.
Default: ['etcd']

Default value: `['etcd']`

##### <a name="-etcd--config"></a>`config`

Data type: `Variant[Hash, String]`

Either a hash or a string containing etcd's config.
Hash will be converted to yaml,
string will be expected to already be in yaml format and will be used as-is.
Default: {name: $facts['networking']['fqdn'], data-dir: '/var/lib/etcd'}

Default value:

```puppet
{
    'name'     => $facts['networking']['fqdn'],
    'data-dir' => '/var/lib/etcd',
  }
```

##### <a name="-etcd--config_dir"></a>`config_dir`

Data type: `Stdlib::Unixpath`

Unixpath to the configuration directory
Default: '/etc/etcd'

Default value: `'/etc/etcd'`

##### <a name="-etcd--config_file"></a>`config_file`

Data type: `String`

Filename of the configfile. Will be combined with $config_dir
Default: 'config.yaml'

Default value: `'config.yaml'`

##### <a name="-etcd--manage_config_dir"></a>`manage_config_dir`

Data type: `Boolean`

Wether to manage the config directory or not.
Default: false if $config_dir is '/etc' else true

Default value: `($config_dir != '/etc'`

##### <a name="-etcd--purge_config_dir"></a>`purge_config_dir`

Data type: `Boolean`

Wether to purge the config directory or not.
Default: same as $manage_config_dir

Default value: `$manage_config_dir`

##### <a name="-etcd--manage_service"></a>`manage_service`

Data type: `Boolean`

Wether to manage (run and enable) the service or not.
Default: true

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-etcd--service_name"></a>`service_name`

Data type: `String`

The name of the service
Default: 'etcd'

Default value: `'etcd'`

##### <a name="-etcd--etcdctl_env"></a>`etcdctl_env`

Data type: `Hash[String, String]`

Environment variables to use for etcdctl
Also used for the custom providers
Default: {}

Example for etcd with auth and TLS enabled:
```
{
  'ETCDCTL_INSECURE_TRANSPORT': 'false',
  'ETCDCTL_USER': 'root',
  'ETCDCTL_PASSWORD': 'Root123!',
}
```

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-etcd--manage_etcdctl_profile"></a>`manage_etcdctl_profile`

Data type: `Boolean`

Wether to manage /etc/profile.d/etcdctl.sh,
containing the env vars from $etcdctl_env.
Default: true

Default value: `true`

##### <a name="-etcd--auth"></a>`auth`

Data type: `Boolean`

Enable/disable auth.
Must add credentials to $etcdctl_env when enabled, to keep using types/providers.
Default: false

Default value: `false`

##### <a name="-etcd--roles"></a>`roles`

Data type: `Hash[String, Hash]`

`etcd_role` resources to create.
Default: {}

Default value: `{}`

##### <a name="-etcd--purge_roles"></a>`purge_roles`

Data type: `Boolean`

Wether to purge unmanaged roles or not
Default: true

Default value: `true`

## Resource types

### <a name="etcd_role"></a>`etcd_role`

@summary
Manage an etcd role

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `etcd_role` type.

##### `ensure`

Valid values: `present`, `absent`

The basic property that the resource should be in.

Default value: `present`

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `etcd_role` type.

* [`name`](#-etcd_role--name)
* [`provider`](#-etcd_role--provider)

##### <a name="-etcd_role--name"></a>`name`

namevar

The name of the role.

##### <a name="-etcd_role--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `etcd_role` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

